Google LLC (“Google” or “the Company”), an Alphabet subsidiary, is a global technology service provider focused on improving the ways people connect with information. Google’s innovations in web search and advertising have made Google’s website one of the most viewed Internet destinations and its brand among the most recognized in the world. Google maintains one of the world’s largest online index of websites and other content, and makes this information freely available to anyone with an Internet connection. Google’s automated search technology helps people obtain nearly instant access to relevant information from their vast online index.Google’s product offerings, including Google Workspace, Application Programming Interfaces and Developer Offerings (Google Workspace Services), provide the unique advantage of leveraging the resources of Google’s core engineering team while also having a dedicated team to develop solutions for the corporate market. As a result, these Google offerings are positioned to innovate at a rapid rate and provide the same level of service that users are familiar with on google.com.Google Workspace, Application Programming Interfaces and Developer Offerings are targeted to small and medium businesses and large corporations alike. These products provide what business organizations typically require, including the following:●Multi-user collaboration●No special hardware or software required by the enterprise●Security and compliance features●Seamless upgradesThe products are composed of communication, productivity, collaboration and security tools that can be accessed virtually from any location with Internet connectivity. This means every employee and each user entity they work with can be productive from anywhere, using any device with an Internet connection.This report only applies to the infrastructure and underlying systems that support the Google Workspace products outlined below. The examination was also not conducted for the purpose of evaluating the performance or integrity of Google’s AI services or models.